Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Now this one is from Michael,
who's a student in the Level three course,
the visual basic for applications cause what Michael wanted was a piece of code that could
use this data set on then do summary in the first.
You know,
we could do this in code,
but it's just as easy to do it in formulas.
And now what we have in this data set is a list of jobs that we want to some Onda add under
each of these columns,
so all the mechanical jobs will be summed here.
All the mot jobs will be some here in the collection delivery Sunday here.
Now,
if this state was presented differently,
this would just be a pure some ifs.
What we would say is looking this column to find the M o tease on.
Look in a different column for the dates,
but you'll notice here that the dates go in a different direction.
So depending on the date down here,
it will depend which of these columns that we actually want to some.
So,
as I say,
if there were,
if this was presented differently if the dates we're going top to bottom,
it would just be a straightforward summits.
As it is.
What we're going to do is modify some if formula,
to do exactly the same job,
and I'm gonna show you how we're going to do that now.
So,
summary sheet,
the first thing we need to do is find out where this days appears in this row here.
And to do that,
we're just going to use simple match se equals match.
Look at that date comma groups.
And let me just get the cell reference in right on this So we always want to look in a but
not necessarily in row tuks.
We want to drag this formula around.
So that's what we're looking at Absolute.
A two on the flip to here highlight the whole of row one by clicking on the one hand,
hinting therefore cause they always want to look a real one Comma.
I want an exact match.
So therefore zero enter right now we can see that we've got an answer of six and we have a
look.
What was the date?
24th Eso We go.
123456 The 24th appears as the six column,
which is column F.
So what we need to do now is find out how to move from column A to get to column math to
give us some range.
And to do that,
we're going to use an upset so you can say offset.
Open brackets were going to come back to here.
We're going to click the whole of column A and hiss at Fort absolute sole reference it.
I'm gonna hit a comma.
And there you see,
you can see saying,
How many rows do you want to offset?
We don't want to offset any rows.
So I'm gonna type zero and comma,
and now what we're going to do is offset columns.
You can see we've got coals here on at the moment and match functions return in six.
But if we have a look from a 123456 is going to take us too far,
what we want to do is subtract one to get us back to this column f here.
So minus one on closer brackets and enter Now ignore the answer 21 for the moment because
what we're going to do is use that as the some rain.
So what we're gonna do is say some if open brackets never the range that we wanna have a
look at.
We're looking for this up here.
Don't forget is in f three and it's always in column D f for absolute de absolute d coma.
The criteria coming back here is going to be this cell,
and I'm gonna hit F for once.
Twice.
It doesn't have to be be,
but it does have to be one.
Yes,
sir.
Be absolute.
One coma.
And now with some range.
Is this one which is going to be captured dynamically,
depending on what date appears in here.
So let me just close the brackets on his center,
and you can see that on the 24th.
Mechanical was 27.
So on the 24th we have mechanical one.
When I read this whole control to mechanical mechanical 27 so that's worked perfectly.
It's dynamically worked out that we should be a column f nowhere.
Me junk.
That formula down.
We should have four should have fought because the sum of mechanical is only four for the
25th.
So when we copy that down.
If we get for we copy that all the way down there.
Now,
these days,
we're going to get around with just quickly.
Sarasota's a if the site half a raw rule,
open rackets.
And if we get an error,
if I could type if era if we get in there,
are we just gonna return the blank?
So comma,
double quotes and close control and day Sago.
So we get 27 45 and six and let's have a look.
We got 27.
We get 45 and six and let's just add another number in their 56.
And that should change then Vegas and never get to 62 now because we've done dynamic cell
reference in What we can do is we can happily drag this around.
We know that we're always going to be looking at exactly the right cells.
So if we looked at here collection and delivery on the 27th the answer is 18.
So on the 27th collection delivery we have that one.
We have that one,
which is nothing,
and that's the only one.
So they go,
that's delivered the rise.
Answer.
Okay,
so that's how you do it.
Hopefully,
that was helpful for you.
If you have any questions of your own,
do just drop a note in the Q and A,
and I'll be happy to get back to you.
Have a great day.